# Oslo-Workshop

This repository contains the Jupyter notebooks for SHAP analysis and neural network verification used in the Oslo workshop of the AI-EFFECT project. It is recommended to create separate virtual environments for the verification and explainability analysis, and use the `requirements.txt` files to initialize them.

## Neural Network Verification

- The **functions** folder contains helper functions for the mathematical verification.
- The **test-networks** folder contains the power grid data used for testing.
- The **trained_nns** folder stores the weights and biases of the trained neural networks.

You can run the `nn_verification` notebook to obtain the verification results.

## Explainability Analysis with SHAP

- The **data** folder contains the data used to train the ML models in this tutorial.
- The **figures** folder is used to store the figures generated by the notebooks.
- The **functions** folder contains helper functions utilized in the notebooks.

There are four notebooks, each for a different example. The first two notebooks are fully developed and were presented at the Oslo workshop, while the other two are still under construction. However, you can take a look at them to get a sense of how SHAP can be applied to those case studies.

1. **Data-driven Security Assessment** using XGBoost to classify operating points as safe or unsafe.
2. **PV Forecasting** using LSTMs to predict solar power output.
3. **Congestion Management** using a simple reinforcement learning agent to redispatch generators.
4. A simple **K-means Clustering** exercise.


## Acknowledgments

- This is work done for the AI-EFFECT project.
- This project uses the SHAP library (https://github.com/slundberg/shap).
